<p>Dr. Muhammad Yunus was born on June 28, 1940, in Chittagong, Bangladesh. He was one of 14 children. His father was a jeweler, and his mother encouraged helping the poor. Yunus excelled in school, eventually earning a Fulbright Scholarship to study in the United States, where he completed his PhD in economics at Vanderbilt University. After returning to Bangladesh, he became a professor of economics at Chittagong University. In 1974, during a famine, he was moved by the poverty around him and began visiting villages to understand the causes. In the village of Jobra, he met women trapped in debt cycles due to high-interest loans. He lent them small amounts of money from his pocket, allowing them to pay off debts and sustain their businesses. This inspired him to start a project providing small, interest-free loans to the poor, particularly women. In 1983, he established Grameen Bank, which provided small, collateral-free loans to the poor. Over 90% of borrowers were women, who gained economic independence and improved their social standing. Yunus's work laid the foundation for the global microfinance movement, demonstrating that the poor could be reliable borrowers and successful entrepreneurs. The model was replicated worldwide, and Yunus became a sought-after speaker and consultant. Despite challenges and criticisms, microfinance had a profound impact on global development, helping millions escape poverty. In 2006, Yunus and Grameen Bank were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. He received other prestigious awards, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the Congressional Gold Medal. Yunus also advocated for social business, a non-dividend company created to solve social problems. He co-founded Yunus Social Business, which supports social businesses globally. He also collaborated with corporations to create social businesses, such as Grameen Danone Foods. Yunus's work continues to inspire social entrepreneurs and has had a lasting impact on global development.</p>
